#continuity of conscious togetherness

_June 20, 2018_

Dear em,

I have questioned the concept of "selfless love" and "nonpossessive love" a lot. Reading through many cases of parting decision solely for the best of the other one, I come to believe that those selfless (and also painful) decisions are more likely to be made by women. Maybe men are more stubborn and irrational when it comes to love?

The most recent one I came across is this: https://www.brainpickings.org/2017/01/20/kahlil-gibran-mary-haskell-love-letters/

Almost every paragraph of that article made me want to write something down. Yet the one that actually made me think the most and gave me some courage for getting back my self-control (partly) is about the idea of “continuity of conscious togetherness”. Em oi I realized how much I had craved for something like that all my life. And that was the first time I heard of that phrase. So beautifully and precisely described.

That is actually also how I think about us. What's between us doesn't need a label. Nor a definition or a classification. It is the continuity of conscious togetherness I'm looking for, and that's the only thing not limited or separated by time or distance ever.

This afternoon you told me about how scary it is if there was someone understanding all of our masks. I sat there and thought how much of a fool I had been, since I had always had an urge to sacrifice all my masks for you. And as Gibran told Haskell that although he believed "anyone who understand us enslaves something in us", he also told her it's her understanding of himself that had gave him more freedom than ever.

I wish I would be able to write that well to express all my feelings for you, my dear April.

Yours,
Việt Anh

P.S. I realize that although I write a lot these days, I haven't actually replied your email. Again, I might need more thoughts and a proper place and time for that, em.

2nd P.S. Despite all being said above, I still can't deny how much I crave for your hugs at this moment, em oi. I miss you so much and it's killing me.