#fragmented thoughts

_June 27, 2018_

Dear em,

1. Do you know how beautiful the sunset today was? It has made me think about you since.

I had a chance to watch it from the crossroad across your place. After getting Q from the school, I took him to get some books I purchased online, and coincidentally the pick-up place is on Nguyen Tu Gian street, opposite the road to your building. Watching the sunset at its most mesmerizing moment reminded me that you had once said the view from your balcony is exactly to the West. Now I understand how you got your obsession.

2. When I'm with you, I'm usually in one of these two extreme states. One is simply serenity; the other are inside chaos.

Yesterday, at times when we were silent in the bar and the book coffee place, I feel like I could enjoy the rest of my life in those soothing moments. How surreal the feeling of having you there with me still is, when only a few months ago I wasn't even aware of your existence. I actually feel fortunate & thankful for getting to know you, and to be able to go through all kinds of happiness and sorrow with you in my mind.

I guess what I intended to say is just I love to be silent with you.

And to go with the other extreme end. The storm inside. The inner conflicts. The dilemmas. Contradictions. Confusions. Questioning everything. Dark sides.

When I'm in that state being with you, I felt myself helpless and even dull somehow. It's like the more things happening inside, the more confused and frozen I become in the outside. I wonder a lot about what you would be thinking. I wonder whether I should do this or say that. I wonder if I'm wasting your time. And a thousand more of things like that.

3. I was thinking about the loneliness state which you described as a "self-protective experience". Actually I used to call that version of mine a "solitude self". And that self even hate itself when it accidentally introduces some external factors into its life. I like to imagine it as a self living in a simulator which run constantly in my mind. So that I could enjoy bringing him out to the surface to front any circumstances I don't like. Or even when I like. Isn't it "self-protective"?

I tried to bring that self out once when I felt too frustrated and floored with my feelings for you.

I don't know if I would regret saying these things. Yet it would never be such thing called the "right time" anyway.

I guess one of the biggest frustrations about us is that I would never be the only one for you and you the only one for me. And I guess we both know that. And it hurts.

But sometimes I went back to ask myself why I would want something like that. Maybe the idea came from the many what-ifs that have kept popping out of nowhere in an overthinking mind.

The solitude self tells me to back off. The emotional self pushes me forward.

And maybe because this has always been the playground for the most irrational and emotional players ever...

4. I want to be with you more. Yet I don't want to occupy much of your time and energy as I know how tight your schedule has been going.

Your hug yesterday made me realize how I wholeheartedly want the best for you. If it sometimes means able to step aside when needed, I would not hesitate.

I hope you wouldn't find what I just wrote ridiculous or dramatic.

5. I myself don't enjoy being cared for too much. That's why I often question myself whether I have made myself involve too much into your life. I hope you would be able to give me some signal for that if it ever becomes the case.

6. Sometimes the answer I can find for my own questions is only a sigh.

7. There is a thought that keeps coming back again and again. That I wish we were ready for each other at a different time and a different situation.

You want to hear the fragments of my thoughts. There they are.

I miss you now more than ever.And I know how I'll miss you then.

Việt Anh