fragments

_June 24, 2018_

I have just come up with a lot of thoughts about us (again, as always). I figured I'm feeling more and more hateful towards myself these days.

It's not really something negative, though. I think I need that. I remember we talked about how annoying it is when being framed in a specific image in someone's mind. Am I being put in one in yours, and are you, in mine? Would that be one of the worst scenarios for us? There also came this thought, that I'm becoming less and less than what I would have been in our relationship should it only be via correspondence instead of direct texting or direct meeting & conversation. I realized when I was with you, I became a slightly different version of myself, in which I was more of a fool. Is it a curse? When we write to each other, I have more time to think to put all those thoughts into words. I prefer my past writings to my lately talks with you.

I imagined a lot of things about you. There are mysteries that I'm becoming more and more confused about and too frustrated to try further to decode. I kept telling myself that what's between us doesn't need some kind of definition or classification, yet all my actions and all I have been thinking about are your feelings towards me. I recognized my desire to be something more to you. I desire your touch, your kiss, your saying that you love me. I want to be someone who loves you and I want you to be someone who loves me. And there comes again the needs to define "love". After all, I have found myself more and more greedy over time.

You riddled me a lot, with all the incompatibilities between your words and your actions. I'm thinking of giving up right now. Yet I don't even know what I'm trying to "give up" exactly. I don't know why but I sense that you're seeing me as something that weighs you down, regardless of whether you realize it. The feelings may be there, but spending time with me is turning into something wasted, partly because you're running out of time, but also because time with me is becoming less and less fun & excited as in the beginning. Isn't it when we get what we want, we usually become less and less appreciated towards it? You have won my heart, and I feel like you don't have the need to know me better anymore? These thoughts are ridiculously negative. I hope it was just my brain in its down time talking.

I love you. I know that feeling and I have been questioning myself nonstop since I realized the changes in me. Yet I'm not sure if I should try anymore. I guess I should just keep things going on like this. To enjoy the beautiful sorrow and the most touching feelings I have ever had. Those recent months when I was able to live all my heart out have been the brightest ones in my life for a long time.

My heart aches every time I think about you. This is a curse. We can not be rational with things like this. I wish I knew you in a different situation and at a different time when we are ready for each other. I wish you would be more open and straightforward to me about your thoughts & your feelings.