#July 18, 2018

Dear em,

1. I found myself a bit excited today when coming across a comment regarding how existentialism leads to nihilism when one tries to create one's own meaning to make sense of this world and helplessly fails, then tries to take it seriously and analyzes the failures deeply, finally comes to realize how subjective meanings are impossible, as much as objective meanings clearly are. It clicked to me that when diving into philosophical thoughts, I usually reach some points where the questions become impossible to find a "right answer". As I keep going through one rabbit hole to the next, there is some thought in the background of my mind, like "there must be some kind of a right answer", that drives a frustrating craving and turns my mind to argue with itself. And it clicked again when I thought of Godel's theorem of incompleteness, as well as Kant's critique of the pure reason: when trying to go to the end of rational thoughts and reasons to make sense of the world, one will always reach a point where the reasons themselves are impossible to be proven within the system of thoughts. Finally, it comes exactly to the reason why one should consider the balance between the temptation of thoughts/knowledge and what are important and really matter in life. Understanding all these "secrets" of the universe and humankind usually don't bring happiness and satisfaction, if not the opposite. And it resonates with Buddhism a lot when looking from this angle.

It's really hard to write these stuffs down and describe fully all the aspects of why I felt it wonderful and worth sharing. I guess it's one of those moments when you see how your fragments of knowledge and thoughts accumulated in a long time from different areas, all come to link together in your mind, and bring you some kind of a new light. Maybe it's like getting to a "happy ending" for a lot of plots at the same time?

2. Stepping aside from this excitement, I want to go to another one regarding writing work. Actually, I have stopped writing anything for a couple weeks now, and it feels good and weird at the same time now when I try to start again today. The motivation to write again came from another realization! This too made me excited a bit.

I once told you how I just sit down and write anything that comes to mind, and hope that I would come up to something good on the way. I found that way of writing led me to write more and more nonsense stuffs over time, especially when my mind is in trouble. And these days I couldn't write much anymore, so I stopped. And I read more. And I do all kinds of other stuffs too. Then today when I was taking my son to his school, it suddenly lighted on me that I have been doing not enough thinking when I write! It's not that I don't think when I write; I always think a lot, which is not always a good thing. It's that my writing speed usually doesn't match my thinking speed, and when I write, what usually happens is that I have to think of each word and each sentence as it comes out, which is very slow. It usually takes a lot of words to fully express a simple thought, and when I have to use the writing speed to think, I fail to make the full thinking process happen, therefore fail to come with what I could have written instead.

That realization helped me adjust the way I write. Actually it's very similar to how we approach the "listening skill" when we learn a foreign language. Students usually make the mistake to try to write what they hear at the same time they listen to them. The lesson is that they need to listen the whole sentence first, then write it down what they just hear afterward. It sounds so simple now when I realized it, but I didn't think about it before. Now when I want to write, I start to think through everything first before I write down what I have thought. I found this helps a lot with this specific problem. I usually come up with all kind of ideas and interesting thoughts during the day, yet everything simply disappear as soon as I sit down to write. Now when I come with something interesting, I try to "save" it in a mental reminder to myself. Next time when I sit down to write, I sit down to think first. And I go through all those "saved" ideas in my mind. Then I go through each one of them in a few minutes, then stop and write about it, then move to the next. So far, I wish I have done this earlier. It helps a lot in writing.

3. I just finished a book about how the author going through the time after her husband had a traumatic brain injury - a stroke. I got quite a bit of positivity from that book. But I don't know why the thing that impressed me the most is this part about a doctor named Omar that had supported her in the hospital:

>From that first day at Rush, Omar took Dave—and all of us—under his wing. We did not know it from Fargo, but Omar had had his hand in everything from facilitating the air ambulance ride to getting Dave a room at Rush on the neuro-ICU floor. Omar reserved the family conference room where we could congregate and where the young niece and nephews (who were not allowed onto the floor of the neuro-ICU) could gather and run around and nap. Omar had a tray of sandwiches waiting for us at dinnertime. When the national press began to sniff around the hospital, hoping for a photo from the ER, Omar added security and made sure that our privacy was protected. Omar ensured that all of Dave’s paperwork was done quickly and that all the parties from the Fargo ER to the Rush cardiology department to the insurance companies were working fluidly and efficiently together. As he does for each one of his patients, Omar worked to get Dave the best possible care and all the tests he needed as quickly as they were medically advisable.

>At one point Omar took me aside. “Do you have out-of-town family? Friends? I know that if my wife were in your situation, she would need her mom with her. There’s just something about her with her mom—it’s like some secret language I can’t understand. So you make sure you have whomever you need with you here. Does anyone need a hotel room?” Omar then pulled out his personal credit card, and I realized that he was offering to book the hotel room for us. The man’s generosity was automatic, unthinking. “Anything we can do for you guys, you are family. Dave is one of our own.”

>Even just thinking about it now makes me want to cry all over again. Especially touching was how available Omar made himself as a friend and confidant, approachable in spite of his busy schedule and his demanding role as a leader at the hospital. His style was a special and rare blend of compassion and understanding mixed with irreverent humor and stubborn hope. A husband, a father of three, a doctor, and a significant figure in the hospital administration, Omar somehow knew every patient by name. Even more remarkable, he knew each patient’s family members by name. He commented on my brother-in-law Mike’s new haircut! I truly do not know when the guy slept or ate; he would check in at all hours. He would stop by the hospital room and pull me out and give me pep talks when he could read the fatigue and sadness and worry on my face after a long day.

It's not the first time I read something like this, about the goodness in people for someone who needs help. Yet, I found myself touched more than usual reading those words about that man. I don't know I would have it in me to be able to do all that, if I were in some similar situation. But somehow, when I read that part, I found myself wanting to be someone like that, and that thought surprised me. And I kept thinking about that and about myself. I guess I have always admired anyone having that generosity and compassion in their heart to be able to lighten up others' life and help out as much as they can. I realized I somehow want to be that person, ironically, because I can feel how the thought is conflicted with how I have treated people around me. I have always been afraid of social connections and human relationships, and now I want to be someone who "light up other's life". Maybe I need to think more about this, and come with some way to actually grow that part of myself in this crazy world. I feel at the same time the frustration of having to deal with human beings and the desire to connect and help build up the goodness in people.

4. Anyway, I guess I need to come back now. The above things have brought me quite some positiveness these days and how I miss sharing those kinds of stuffs with you!

I can't deny that I have been thinking about us the last two weeks, to make sense of what is going on and to guess what is in your mind. I came to a point where I realized that my thinking would just go nowhere. I hesitated a lot writing these words, because after all the things I wrote before, I fear that the more I write, the worse things would be. But then again, I don't know how it could be worse anyway. And I figure that the only way I could reach you now is to write.

Please understand that the reason I write all this is not about myself or my selfish feelings. I value our connection with all my heart and really want to mend our connection. I really hope that you would also give it a chance. And a positive choice.

I have too many questions I keep thinking over and over again. Why does it have to come to this? How have you felt after what I wrote? How have my words hurt you and have I fully been aware of how much my words have hurt you? Why wouldn't you give me a chance to understand you again? I reread what I wrote to you a hundred times, to frame it into different scenarios, to force myself into your position and imagine how it was on your side. I found myself quite helpless trying to do that, and I guess I fully "get" the helpless feeling of ignorance now when you don't bother to deal with me anymore. I have to admit that I couldn't fully understand enough how bad your experience would be regarding all this mess of mine.

I have done a lot of reflection after I calmed myself down. I realize one big chunk of what I have done was the negativity I brought to you, along with my unbelievable selfishness. I asked myself again and again and again why would I do that. Can I just blame all of that to the craziness of a moment? Can I give some justifications for what I have done? One thing I knew is that, when writing those words, I was in the name of "saying what one truly feels", and that I felt like it needed a lot of courage to pour out those things to you, a "brave" confession, a sacrifice of all the dark sides in me to you. Looking back, I don't regret being honest with you, but I regret so much how I was full of myself at that moment, that I didn't take more time to care about your situation. I also realized that what I said in those emails was maybe the last thing you would ever expect to hear from me.

For all that, I apologize to you deeply and sincerely.

I have been reflecting about my actions and my feelings a lot lately, and as a result, putting myself into a philosophical and analytical mode again. I don't know if it's a good thing in this situation, but it's a logical outcome, since it's the best way I know, to cope with what I couldn't understand.

I analyzed myself and my feelings for you over and over again. I found myself objecting to that process at first. Should one use rationality to address one's feelings? Don't emotions & feelings belong to a sacred part of human beings where reasons and logic can't touch? Anyway, I overcame those objections and questioned myself of the feelings I have towards you. One thing I knew is that I didn't lie to myself when I said I love you, and that it is actually broader than romantic love. But the important thing is that, I came to recognize the difference between the loving feeling and the short-term emotional phases that led to my emails to you. A person consists of so many different sides. That person who wrote those emails was of course one of my versions, but it's more likely to be the one who got deluded by the emotional chemical juice in the brain, together with the romantic imagination of strange feelings that hadn't come for a long time. That was me at that moment, and although I couldn't conveniently deny that version of myself now, I want you to know that it feels like a shame to be identified with that image by you in our connection.

I have always treasured our "connection" ever since I knew more about you. (I want to use the word "relationship", but it tends to get mixed up with a specific kind of relationship, so "connection" may be much more precise with its broader meaning here.) That connection came with many meaningful mutual points of view, one of which is the objection to the idea of framing a person into a specific "image". Like how one would build up a "version" of another being in his mind and expect the other to think and behave like that ever since. It would not feel easy to be framed like that. And I have always reminded myself not to do that to you. I questioned myself at many points in our "connection" about that, and as I once told you, I kept being surprised when getting to know unexpected new things about you. Those moments were wonderful. Sometimes you made me wonder whether I was so boring for you, contrasted to how interesting you had always been for me.

At this moment when I write these lines, I know I have become much more stable with my feelings and my thinking about us. I wish it would not be too late already. I'm scared of the thought that you have become too fed up with my intruding actions and words. At the beginning, I thought of writing something like "I don't expect anything anymore from you", but as I rethink about that, of course I have some expectations. That you would write back to me, even if you still don't feel like to talk to me directly... yet. That you would have some faith in me that I consist far more than those shallow moments of the words I wrote to you. That you would have some faith in our mutual experience all these months, in all the chances and choices we had made that led to this. I wholeheartedly don't want to lose what's between us over my absurd actions to you.

These days when I couldn't reach you, I have tried to fill my time with all kind of actions and work, to spare myself from the pessimistic thinking and sadness. And I did find more balance. I remember you once said that, maybe I was having too much free time and autonomy in my work that I became more and more indiscipline and unproductive. I guess that's right. In the 2 recent weeks, I got my hands on to work on a new startup in the IoT market with my friend, I joined a kickboxing class to help exhaust the physical body as much as the mental part (seeking for more balance in my life), I read a bunch of books in all my free time and I also took care of many household projects that I had been delayed for quite some time. The most important thing maybe the decision to rejoin the 1-day meditation courses every Saturday for old students. I spent 6 hours each Saturday for meditation and that has been a tremendous help to my mind. That also brings me some insights I want to share with you before your coming 10-day meditation course.

All those activities helped a lot in balancing my mind and my mood. And especially helped me to think more clearly about everything again. I feel now a lot more positive and I do want to keep myself this way. I want to be more positive and generous with people around, and I think this will also bring me some consolation and happiness in the time being. To say all that about myself, I just want you to know that I think I love that self of mine much more than a grumpy and sarcastic self that I have been for some time now. One thing I also figure is how I want to bring happiness to you and hope that you would find some meaning and inspiration again in our connection, instead of all the problem I brought to you.

Actually at times, I feel really positive and at times I fell to a crazy bottom end. The extreme state is that I imagine losing our connection for good, that you would never say a word to me anymore, that I would become just like the other guy in your life, the one who is your friend's ex that you told me you don't want to ever see again, or become just like that group of people at the Nomad cafe that you decided to cut off from your life over some misunderstanding... Those scenarios terrified me. One of the curses of being a human is maybe the memory. I would question myself over and over again for years to come about how I would lose a connection like ours, while remembering all the mutual experience and memory we have had together.

Em oi, I wish you would be able to find the minimal time possible to write to me, even a sentence in an email, or a few words in a short sms, to console me that you would think about this and that our connection is still having some meaning to you. That maybe you are still not ready to talk to me at this moment, but you wouldn't cut me off just like how I know you could...

A word, please. For old time's sake?

Việt Anh