#just why?

_July 4, 2018_

Em,

I'm feeling jealous of all the things that take you away from me. Your work. Your trips. Your friends. Your class. All of them. It doesn't even stop there. Sometimes when I hear stories about your sisters or your boyfriend, I feel envious with them for all the time and experience they have had with you.

It's absurd, isn't it?

I have been through different emotional stages these weeks. From sadness to anger. From frustration to emptiness. From longing to heartbroken. I remember reading somewhere that people tend to focus more on the negatives. Maybe that's part of the reason why the joy being with you never lasts long enough to cover for the pain of separation. I hate it so much when I can only be a small piece among all the things happening in your life, especially when there are not much time left. I hate your work for which you have to invest all the extra time and effort that you rarely have even a free day. And I hate your German class that drains all the last bit of your energy at the end of the day. I don't have any other choice except having all those hateful thoughts, do I?

But what aches my heart the most is how all those things have occupied your time and energy enough to stop you from even reacting to your own emotions. I feel like time has become some kind of luxury to you, that you couldn't find enough of it to even think about me or to have a need to reach out for me.

It pained me that every time I tried to ask for your time, I was bounced back right away, just like hitting a wall. It ate out all my will from the inside out and frustrated me more and more everyday.

But it also pains me every time I think of surrendering. How much time left for me to be with you anyway? And I know I would regret it when you're gone if I just stop trying, no matter how many times I get turned down.

It's a dead end after all. I have no control over what's going on. And somehow, neither do you, when you have so many things that need your priority. Never before have I felt this hopeless. How I wish I could have you for myself only.

...

Càng ngày anh càng nhận ra anh thương em nhiều như thế nào. Nhưng cũng vì vậy mà anh càng thấy buồn em nhiều hơn Vy ơi...

Anh

P.S. Please don't try to give me a consolation. I only want to know what is actually in your mind. Just give me the truth and nothing else.