#sometime during her trip

_May 9, 2018_

>I hesitated a lot over whether to put these writings up here. I wrote these words during your trip, at different times, so it may feel fragmented and confused to read. I didn't want you to read this because even now when I go through it again, it still feels so overwhelming and because I was afraid that I would scare you away.

I feel like I'm lost in an empty vastness. I was extremely happy when I found you. All I have been doing since I met you is to think about you. Is this just some kind of illusion? What am I expecting from you and from our relationship? There has been a terrible conflict growing day by day inside me. Is it all about the outer self and the inner self? Or is there something else as well?

The concept of weight and lightness somehow makes life harder to look at. Should we live with more responsibilities? Or should we just screw everything because nothing will ever matter anyways? Or would it do matter and human beings are just some dumb creatures who are simply too ignorant to know better?

If life repeats itself again and again without our knowing about it, would it make things easier or harder? What's the point if we wouldn't remember anything anyway? We may as well live with the kind of motto "you only live once" and fuck up everything. But in the end we never know when we're still living. If we have been repeating our lives for like forever, does it matter when we don't even remember a thing? But if we do remember, will it make any difference?

I have been in this state for days, waiting for your words. I can't stop thinking about you. Is this making any sense? What am I looking for?

I don't know if you would think of me now and then during your trip. But why does it matter? Does it make any differences? I feel better reading your lines, your tender words and I can even imagine the way you would speak those words out. Deep down I can see myself wanting to be someone special to you. I want more and more. I feel that my affection for you is driven in a selfish way. And I crave for more of your attention.

My April, I want to write to you, yet I'm afraid that my emails would interrupt your experience during your trip. So maybe these words would not be sent after all.

I have been in a "frozen" state for days now. I lost track of my normal states of self-awareness and equanimity that I have always anchored myself in. I'm losing my balance, ever since my inner self found the chance to speak itself out with a louder voice.

When things like that got spoken out loud, they become something so tangible that you can actually feel their existence around yourself, and suddenly there is a great force hitting you up front and striking you out from the balance you have always enjoyed for granted. Before that, although living persistently and evolving continuously inside the mind, that inner side was much more abstract and didn't actually get in your way. It even acted as a reliable foundation for your sanity to survive daily social life. Only until it was truly found. Then, it becomes a beast.

And that beast is becoming more and more uncontrollable.