#surrender

_July 2, 2018_

I don't want to write anything about this anymore. But here I am, forcing myself to do it, so that one day I can look back and see for myself what has been going on, under a more objective view.

I have been acting like a fool around you. I lost my controls over my thinking and my actions. I become someone I have always hated. I don't understand what's going on and I can't stand your calmness over everything. But I know I just don't want to have a hard look at my inner self. Deep down, I know my fears.

One of the most popular biases is how people think they can understand another human's state using their own experiences. The so-called empathy can be rooted down to overconfident and arrogant attitude or underestimating the vast possibilities of how something can stem from. But here I am, fearing that I'm getting back the same thing I have done and the same feeling I have had in the past towards another one. Pitiful "love".

Please don't try to give me any consolation. Just don't. That would be the worst. After what I have done and how you have reacted, there is actually nothing left to do or say. My heart keeps broken again and again, and I'm not sure I have the will as well as the strength to try anymore. But it all comes down to the question: what exactly am I expecting? I have known everything right in the beginning.

I felt jealous over everything and everyone that takes you away from me. And I only want you for myself. I want more and more.

But I guess that's why I'm in my current state. Because I'm not able to get what I want. And because I realized what exactly I am receiving from your end. The same acts and the same look and the same words I used to do and say to someone in the past.

It's bitter to be in that side of a relationship.

I should just drop everything. Yet I found myself repeating the same mistakes over and over again, for I couldn't help myself. But this has to stop and I have to regain my self-control to move on. I have to direct my energy and time into what matters to me, instead of a hopeless situation like this.

Trying any more and I'll be just like a moth to a flame.